Hello everyone and welcome to the string permutation solution lecture.
So before we begin we're going to do is check out the problem statement.
Again there there's a solution.
No book fully explaining solution below as well as a commented version of the code.
OK let's go ahead and remind ourselves of the problem statement was given a string right.
A function that uses recursion to output a list of all the possible permutations of that string.
So for example the string is ABC.
The function should return these six permutations of it.
Now there was a special note here.
If the characters repeated what you should do is treat each occurrence as distinct.
And what that meant was if you had an input string of three Xs then you should get six versions of x
x x.
All right so given that we want to fill out a solution below soughing I want to make note of.
If the problem was just to permute a string you really wouldn't write your own function.
In Python you would use the tools library.
So I go ahead and suggest that you check that out.
It's a really really useful library in Python for doing these kind of operations.
OK and I'll get you some bonus points if your interviewer if you mention that you know about it before
you begin.
So let's go ahead and look at the steps we're going to take to solve this problem and to zoom in that
below.
So there's four main steps here that we're going to use to solve the first one is we're going to iterate
through the initial string.
So ABC and that makes sense in order to have any sort of permutation we'll have to iterate through that
string then for each character in that initial string.
So for instance A and B and C will set aside that character and then get a list of all permutations
of the string that's left.
So for example if the current iteration is on B then we want to find all the permutations of the string
A C which would be a C and C.
Then once we have that list from step 2 we would add each element from that list to the character from
the initial string and append the result to Arliss the final results.
So for on be again we've gotten the list AC and CA and then we'll add beats the front of those resulting
in B a C and BCA and each of those we add to our final output list and then we return the list of final
results.
So that's the main thinking I want to do for each of these letters.
Here grab the rest of these letters and then see all the permutations of them and then tack them on
to that first initial letter.
Now hopefully you can see that this starting to become a recursive problem because if you have more
elements or letters in that string and more generic term would be elements.
So if you have more elements in that string you could keep doing this for all those letters until you
come back recursively to that first initial letter.
Sort of give you a better idea of what I'm trying to say here let's go ahead and start coding it out
.
So first thing you want to do is just create the function going to call it permute it takes in the string
and then I'm just going to say pass right now.
All right.
So in this case we're going to do since we're going to output a list.
It specifically asked for a list and the problem statement.
I'm just going to make a variable called out and set it to an empty list.
And let's think of the base case.
Again remember as we iterate through the string and go through all the elements we know similar to the
last interview problem we just did that the base case is going to happen when we just have one letter
left because there aren't going to be any following letters so we can do any sort of permutation line
.
So right off the bat we already know the base case is going to look like.
Just by thinking about it logically we're going to say if length of the input string is equal to 1 then
we know out we would just put that element on there.
All right.
Now for the recursive case.
So.
Else.
So what we want to do.
Just like we were saying in those four steps for every letter in that string.
And I'm actually going to comments what we're doing in plain English.
So for every letter in string and in this case I actually want to keep track Sigmon to be using slicing
.
So I'll use enumerate.
So save for I let's.
In enumerates that string then for every permutation resulting from step 2 and 3 that we described.
So for every permutation resulting from step 2 and 3.
So that would be for all say for perm in and this is where the recursive call comes into play.
For Perman permute.
And I'm gonna type it in then explain when I'm actually passing here.
Let me go and center that plus.
Plus one continued
ongoing to add it to the output going to say out equals plus the letter plus that permutation and then
finally WIPs Once that's done I will return
the output list.
OK so base case should have been pretty straightforward once you have just one letter left.
You just return that letter now.
Else is a little different.
So for every letter in that string So what are we doing here I'm saying using enumerate.
I grabbed the index of my total string and then the letter in enumerate and then for every permutation
resodding were set two and three are going to add it to the out puts.
So I say for perm in permute S and S is going to go all the way from loops.
Should be pi.
Excuse me sorry.
From everything up to the current index we're on here plus the string from I plus 1 all the way to the
end.
So this is kind of tricky to understand so we're going to break it them a little further.
So look what I doing here I'm grabbing everything up to that index and attaching it to that index plus
one all the way to the end.
And so what that will do when I pass into permutation it will if we go back to the solution book
you can see here it's going to basically say OK get a and then pass that b c into the permute function
and then recursively keep calling it all the way until you only get a single element in that string
.
So your homework assignment if you're having trouble understanding what the slice notation is actually
doing in this permutation recursive call.
Go ahead and add print statements to help yourself really visualize this.
So for instance you can add print statements for yourself if you want to know perm is.
You can and that prints well.
Just go ahead and see what that will do.
You run it that way and then go ahead and run it on a very simple and obvious string like one two three
and I'll show you the steps printed out for the permutations that it's doing.
Permis three permits two permits two three permits three two.
And then since you're adding that to let you can actually print that out as well.
So we can go ahead and then put in for instance Prince
current letter is
like T and if we run that we can say current letter I should say elements since I'm actually running
numbers here but I'll say ABC.
So current letter is B the permit C current letter C permits B current letters a.
And notice here.
Now we have the permutations we can add to it b c and c b which will end up being a B C and A C B.
And that's going to be added to that out list.
So use print statements to help you understand this.
I know it's a little confusing if you just look at it a first glance but feel free to print out as many
of these things as you need to.
You can also print out the specific index slices to help you really understand how these recursive calls
are working here.
OK.
So that's it for this solution.
Member you can read the entire solution notebook for a deeper view of how it's actually working.
But all we're basically doing is going through the iteration of the string then for that string we take
off an initial letter look at everything else and then find the permutations of it in which case if
we do this recursively we'll take off that initial string and then find the recursions of that using
that slicing notation we did earlier.
All right.
So go ahead and walk through the solution and make sure you fully understand it.
And other than that I will see you at the next lecture.
Good job everyone